Why should we share and reuse research data?
There are several key reasons.
First, data sharing helps prevent duplication of efforts.
By reusing existing datasets, we can save time, reduce costs, and avoid repeating experiments unnecessarily.
Second, sharing data promotes transparency and reproducibility.
Independent researchers can validate findings by replicating the original workflows.
In an era marked by concerns about research integrity and reproducibility, this is essential.
Third, shared datasets can be used to explore new research questions or combine with other data to generate novel insights.
They are also valuable resources for teaching and training, offering students and early career researchers the opportunity to work with real-world data.
Finally, openly shared raw data supports large-scale analyses like meta-analyses, which rely on high-quality, reproducible research inputs.